Hey guys, welcome back.
OK.
So I've got a little bit of an extra lecture.
What we're going to do in this one is I'm going to show you
some of the quick add apps, at least that's what I call them.
So you can make photos on your phone, and since
Instagram's all on your phone or is primarily on your
phone, it kind of makes sense there would be a whole
cottage industry of apps that are there to help you
make these quickly and on the go. Depending
on what kind of account you're making,
these can have limited usefulness for you.
If you're doing a themed account, they're great.
If you're doing a business, and you, let's say, want to
throw up text on a photo you took, then that's pretty useful.
If you're a business that's okay doing quotes or, I don't know, it's useful for a lot of different
things. If you do those "ask the audience" posts, then you can
use them for that, but really it's more for static images plus text
and then there's some functionality for
adding logos and things like watermarks.
So, depending on what you're doing, pretty helpful.
I think it's worth checking them out.
Although I personally am not really going to use them.
I'll use them for inspiration on
effects, and styles, and text like that.
But for the most part, I'm going to stay out
of the quick add apps. Totally up to you.
So we'll start with iOS and then we'll do Android.
Now, the two things I'm using, one's called Typorama
and the other one is called Wordswag.
Both kind of do the same thing, Typorama works
a lot better on iOS, and Wordswag works well
on I'd say both of them, they're pretty much the
exact same, but it works pretty well on Android,
so that's why we're going to cover Wordswag as well. Functionality wise, they're kind of the same thing, they have some quirks.
All right.
So I've just got to find Typorama.
There it is.
Typorama is a free app, but it also has a paid version,
like a pro version, and the pro version I believe
just gives you more templates and more styles to use,
so use the free version and then see if you like it.
So the way that this basically works is they give you
tons and tons of stock images, and they also connect
to some online databases of stock images,
I think they use Pexels or Pixabay.
So that means they have millions
of stock photos that you can use.
You can search for really whatever you want.
They've kind of curated some of
the best looking ones right here.
But if I wanted something like a rocket, let's search for a rocket, see, there you go. So it goes through Pixabay, and there you go.
So they're not as clean and sharp as the other ones, but
you can kind of see that they're still pretty dang good.
That's a really nice photo.
OK.
So other than that it's, you know, you can use
your own photos, which is perfectly fine.
You can do presets, and this is for sizes, so Typorama,
you can use for any social media account, but they have
Instagram post and Instagram story, that's obviously
what we care about.
You can use them for your stories, that's helpful.
Keep in mind, stories are just more column shaped,
they're taller. Instagram posts are just squares.
And then over here we have colors.
So if you wanted to just put a flat color
background, that's one way of doing it.
Totally up to you.
We looked at one account earlier called Foundr minus the E,
that's what they do, they just do solid color background.
So if you're just focusing on text,
then that's one way of doing it.
And, you know, also sometimes you do
themed posts, like, say it's Valentine's Day.
Well, here's a lot of pink and maroon-ish
red that you could use as well.
So let's say we pick a stock image, and I'm going
to look for something that's like a lab, it's going
to give me probably a lot of dogs.
Okay.
So I'm going to try to create something
that might fit for Innovation Station.
And so, like, labs, and beakers, and innovation,
and science, I think those kind of go together.
No, I don't want a black lab, although they're adorable.
I'll probably pick something like this.
OK.
So that's pretty good.
How do you want to use your creation?
I want it to be an Instagram post.
So you click that, and then you can
crop it by pinching if you want to.
But for the most part, I think this is pretty good.
So hit next.
All right.
So what it does is it starts you off with some
text and they have all sorts of pre-stylized text.
So, I mean, many of these work. These are nice because
sometimes you don't know what font you want to use,
so what you can do is just borrow one of these and
then delete all the extra stuff, and then just keep
their font, at least that's what I do sometimes.
But you can kind of go through these and then just see what fits
well with the image that you have, like, that's pretty cool.
I'm looking for contrast with the background, personally.
So you can kind of keep going through it. Again,
we'll do some contrast stuff later. As you can see, it
already added my logo because I have that added,
it's actually over here in the watermark section, but
we'll get to that in a second.
So what I need to do is pick a frame for text.
What do I want to do?
I'm focused more on something that kind of fits
the general feeling of what we're looking at.
I think that's actually kind of cool, it goes with the rocket,
and I think I can contrast out the background enough.
Now, if you want to screw with the text, you can
do this, and you can change the orientation and
size, and so on. The way that you edit it is you just double
tap the text like that and then you have to edit it right here.
Now, down here, they have two options, "get a random quote,"
and then "manual line breaks." Manual line breaks
means that it won't automatically do the line break for you,
so it doesn't automatically pick where in
the sentence to move on to the next line.
Usually, you only do that if it's breaking in a way that you
just really don't like, and then "get a random quote,"
that's actually pretty useful, I'll be honest, that really
just gives you a quote, you know, and even if it has
nothing to do with what you're talking about,
it's a great way to play around with it.
I have not failed. I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work.
Cool. My life in a nutshell. And then
what we can do is over here,
so we're in the text tab,
and then we move over to, let's say,
the color tab, right after we resize this.
Ok, kind of looks like a graphic
novel type design or something.
So we'll go to color. Now, color is
going to change the color of the text.
Personally, I don't really think there's any way
to improve on it, so I'm going to stick with this.
You can choose a custom color right there, but unfortunately,
it's like, you have to use your finger, so if you
need to get a color that's identical
to your brand, good luck with that.
And then this is opacity, so if you
want it to not show up as much,
which is helpful if you want to add in something
like quotations, like you saw we did with Canva.
So if I wanted to add extra text I'd just hit this plus
button up here, and now I have more text. And then
maybe I could mess with the opacity of this,
so that fits behind the text that I have.
Okay.
So then, moving on, we can do shadow, and
then shadow is kind of the same thing. Again,
I personally like to just stick with the templated
text they give you, but you have a lot of options.
So you can blur it if you want.
It doesn't really do much.
I think that just doesn't really work for every single...
Okay.
So there you go.
Now you can see that this really
has a shadow on the back.
It's going to depend on how much you like the different look.
So yeah, it really sticks out when you do it that way.
So I like the contrast.
I'm going to give it some. OK.
Then you can also change the color of the background.
Usually it's by default black, but you
can make it white, red, whatever.
See, I think I'll come back to this one
later to see if I need color to break it up.
My main concern is when you scroll past it,
how easy is it to read and how quickly
does it draw your eyes to the actual text.
So then we go to gradient, and you can do a gradient,
that's another option.
For me, that stuff's a little 2006.
Some designers can still do gradients really well,
and I'm not a designer, so I don't generally touch
gradients, but the way that this generally works is,
a gradient is when you start with one color and end
in one color, and so in the middle it transitions slowly.
Our logo actually has that in the colored version.
So what you do is you pick a starting color.
Let's say it's a green, and then the
end color, say it's like a darker green.
Yeah, it's kind of like phosphorescent or something,
and then you can change the direction.
So notice how it usually starts from the center
and then points outwards, so there we go.
Like it's, you can just kind of screw with
it till you find something that you like.
If you don't like it, just hit disable. Ok, moving on. Eraser.
Now, this is helpful if, like I was saying before, you
just want to use the text. If you just wanna use the
text and not, say, like, the extra lines or the little
graphical winging things that they put in there, you
can use that. The way you just do this is you
play around with the eraser size and then the intensity,
but then you basically throw your finger on here
and see where the green circle is,
I'm just destroying everything that's touching that, and
this is honestly not the easiest thing to use, I'll be honest.
But if you really need to clean something, it's going
to take several tries, but you'll get it eventually.
I think the thing with this is that
it's on your mobile phone,
so I don't really know what you expect.
So undo, if you want to do that,
you can always move backwards.
Then there's the 3D rotation.
You know, this one's not a hugely important one.
Sometimes it doesn't even work, to be honest.
It's essentially going to twist it like that or like this.
You may not even notice it on some.
So I usually skip it.
OK.
Moving on to the next section,
we have Background. Now, here,
what we did before is we searched stock images,
and that's generally what you see first,
then we have the choose color, choose my photos. Now,
I'm just going to move on to overlays. Overlays are kind
of cool, because what you can do is
you can throw on a pattern on top of this.
So if you wanted it like that.
That's like the... I can't remember what
that's called, it's like similar to Moray.
You see it in a lot of urban city shots at night.
You can kind of play around with these, generally
I suggest toning down the intensity.
They're nice when they're subtle, but when
they're like that, oh my God, not so much.
There's other effects here, like dust.
So it makes it look like an old photograph.
I don't know.
To me, it kind of looks like a horror flick, but up
to you. Really it just takes some tweaking.
And if that fits your brand, then go for it.
There's a couple ones in here that I thought
were kind of interesting, like the smoke.
Sure.
I mean, not great for kids, but great for Instagram.
So you can make like a real subtle smoke, or not.
Let's see if I can get better smoke.
Yeah, sure.
It's like something exploded or something, I don't know,
I could probably play that into a rocket or some
kind of theme like that. Ok, now over here we have
filters. Filters are just presets that you can use,
like, if I just wanted, if I just knew I had a preset
that I liked, I could just use that. Very similar
to Instagram, whether you like these
better than Instagram, I don't know.
Doesn't really matter for me, I don't usually use filters.
So then adjustments, again, the way I usually get the text
to stick out from the background is I lower contrast.
You can also blur it.
You can also lower the brightness, there's
a lot of different ways you can do it.
But personally, this is how I do it.
So, like, that's too much, so we'll just lower the contrast,
and then same other settings that we kind of
covered when we went over the user
interface for posting on Instagram.
You can vignette, you can blur, again,
be careful when you blur.
It's just, at a certain point, you can't even  tell what it is.
So if you want people to focus on the foreground,
but also know what it is in the background, then keep
the blur to a minimum.
So we do that, I think that's perfectly fine.
That smoke's probably a little overdone, but whatever.
OK.
Now, moving on to watermark. The last thing is the watermark,
and essentially what that is is your logo.
They call it a watermark, but it's not a watermark.
There's two different things, you can put in your logo and your
logo is just going to be something that's white or an outline,
and it shows that it's yours and it's good for branding,
a watermark on the other hand is something that's
semi-transparent that you can read when you look
at it, but it doesn't really stick out. What that's used
for is so that people don't steal your images, that's it.
So if someone takes it and they try to post it,
it's really, really hard to get rid of a watermark.
So that's a little bit different than this,
I don't know why they call it a watermark,
but regardless. All you have to do is upload a new watermark,
but the way you have to do it is you have to
take your logo or your text and I suggest making it
white and then uploading as a PNG file, like a .png file.
If you guys need help with that, I can show you how to do
that on Photoshop, there's a lot of easy ways of doing it.
Basically what that means is it's a transparent image.
There's nothing in the background, it's not bringing
in a bunch of random colors, and things like that,
that's gonna make it really difficult.
So I have the text if I wanted to do the text instead.
That's pretty useful if you're planning
on making this a shareable thing.
One thing that drives me nuts a little bit about Typorama
though is they don't have the option to do both.
You can only do one watermark, which drives
me nuts, so I don't really know which one's the...
Personally, I think I like the rocket, although it's
just like, this is probably something I wouldn't plan
on people reposting, because they
wouldn't know what the rocket is.
That's why I wish I could do both of these.
But I guess what I could do is you could combine the two
and then just upload as one watermark, but whatever.
OK, so let's say that I'm happy with this, and I could
say, OK, share, then what happens is I can do
it directly on Instagram if you want.
I generally don't suggest doing that.
I generally suggest saving it to save a backup of it.
You can use that later,
it's just useful as assets, but you can also send it to other
people if you're working with other people to do this.
Other than that, I'm just gonna hit save.
OK.
Also, keep in mind, you can always add
processing to it once you're done with it.
You can just go to, say, Instagram's app,
and then play around with it.
So, cool.
OK.
So, moving on over to Android.
All right.
So, on Android, I'm going to show you Wordswag,
and if you guys like Wordswag better, that's cool.
You can find Wordswag on both systems actually.
This is what Wordswag looks like.
The camera button takes you to your camera.
So if you want to take a photo and
then put text over it, it's great for that.
Otherwise, you just hit that, and then we're going to
either use a camera roll image or one of their images.
I'm just going to use one of their images just
because I think that's a little bit more useful.
So they have a lot of great images.
They also pull from Pixabay.
So not a big difference there.
This is actually my home screen on my phone.
So why not? We'll use that.
So down here it has presets for you.
Now, keep in mind, Instagram is the square.
So use the square, and then you
can hit crop and it moves you on.
OK.
So the way you move your text, it's going
to walk you through it, which is great.
It's just pinching, moving, and then twisting.
So once it's done yelling at you, then you're done.
OK.
So it starts you off with some bare basic stuff.
Same way that this works is as the other one.
Basically, we have lots and lots of text types here.
So, no, I don't want to like you. So they have
some in here that you have to either pay or like
to unlock, which is a little annoying,
but most of this stuff is free. So, let's see.
I would want to put something like a quote about
wonder in the world or something, I don't know.
Okay.
So I think that could probably work enough
to work with the background a little bit.
Cool.
Okay.
So what the buttons over here,
the one, two, three, four, five is
is that all text on here has different ways of being organized.
There's different ways of breaking the line and sizing,
and if you don't want to deal with that,
they have auto sets for you.
So I can just change it like that, which is super useful
sometimes, because sometimes you're just looking
at it, and you're like, "This just doesn't feel right."
So you can do that, and then also this just randomizes
it, so you can play with that as much as you want.
Usually, these ones are the ones they've made
beforehand, because they know they don't look bad.
So I usually stick with those.
But once you find that, we can go over to color,
and color is just going to apply to the text.
Same thing, transparency, blah.
You can pick your own color, again, this
is useful because you use the HEX code.
OK.
You can pick whatever you want.
I like the fact that you can pick the HEX codes.
You can also just do your text in these weird kind of
styles, like dotted lines, texturized styles are pretty cool.
Again, it's really going to depend on your
background, if something is way too heavy,
then it's not going to matter.
No one's gonna see it.
Here's some pastels that can be useful.
Again, you're going to have to have a really light
background to pull off a pastel kind of thing like that.
You can also invert, which usually inverts the... yeah.
There you go.
That was weird.
That just flips it.
So it just puts the color in the background.
I don't know why that's a button everybody would
want to have front and center, but whatever.
Then, last thing is image, and they give
you just basic presets, so, sweet. Anyway,
again, I'm not a huge filter dude, so this is up to you
guys if you want to use filters, adjust the brightness,
there you go.
Pull that back.
You can read the text.
Then what you do is you just hit save and
there you go, done, like you just added it.
They don't in their app allow you to add watermarks
immediately, which is perfectly fine.
What happens then as you go down to add logo /
watermark, so then takes you back, and you're basically
just doing this one more time.
Maybe you could just write your name in text,
I mean, you could also use an image,
just make sure that you have it
on your hard drive on your phone.
Anyway, you could change the text like that, usually I do
auto line breaks. Over here it just gives you random
things that you can use.
These are just quotes, things to play around with.
They're pretty useful. Also, I mean,
they're all curated by emotion type.
So you see these on a lot of motivational
and "believe in your future self."
"As I look back on my life..." I don't care.
"What do you have until you want to do" whatever.
Oprah Winfrey, great. Also you can put down here who quoted it.
That's another thing, so it will automatically put a lower line.
So if I wanted that Oprah quote, so you can see
it's like this, and it put Oprah at the bottom.
OK.
So, I mean, that's pretty much it.
Wordswag, not as smooth and nice as
Typorama, but it works on both systems.
Now, there are tons of these apps out there, like, if
there's another one you like better, or you're tempted
to ask the question like, "Evan, is this app good for doing this?"
Chances are, probably yes.
I don't know.
You have to try it.
There's probably a hundred of them.
If you just go on to the Play Store or on the App Store,
and you just say "Instagram photos" or "text on photo"
then you just get tons and tons and tons of these, some
of these are pretty bad, to be honest, so you just have
to play around with them.
These are the two ones that everybody knows.
OK.
Hopefully this was helpful.
Check them out if you think this is useful
for your workflow. Otherwise, moving on.